Hello there.
This is the Manila Room.
And welcome back.
So we looked at a few important shortcuts for efficiently exploring our source code.
Now let's go ahead and look at a few more shortcuts, which will help us in being more productive.
And these shortcuts fall into two categories.
And the first set of shortcuts will help us in keeping our source code organized and well formatted.
And the second shortcuts will help us end automatically generating source code.
And these shortcuts are really good and I just love the shortcuts and hopefully you will also like them.
So let's go ahead and look at the shortcuts for organizing and formatting our source code.
So the first shortcut is related to import statements.
So here we are in the basics demo class and the main method.
Let's say we want to create an instance of this class called ArrayList, which is from the Java package,
let's say list one.
So it is giving us compilation error because we need to add the import statement.
So what we can do is we can just hover over here and it will give us this pop up with some suggestions
like the quick fixes.
So it says we can import ArrayList, which is what we want to do.
So just click on that and the ArrayList import statement is here.
How cool is that?
So that's good.
Now let's.
Create another instance of another class from the same package.
It's a link list.
So obviously it will give us compilation error.
But instead of hovering and selecting it, what we will do is we will use a shortcut.
It is control shift or stands for organized organizing.
So the import statement is once again added here from the same package.
Now let's add one more object.
But this time it is data object.
And say control shift or.
And it is giving some recommendations here.
It says organize imports because the class is in multiple packages.
So let's select this first one.
And you will see that date as imported.
And also, you can see that they're all arranged in alphabetical order.
So that's nice.
Now, let's say we don't need these statements anymore, so we just delete them.
But the import statements are still here, and we have some compiler warnings too, because we are not
using them.
So once again, just say control shift and all of those import statements will go away.
They are completely harmless, but we don't want those import statements here.
So control shift or is allowing us to add import statements and also remove unused import statements
and they also have one more purpose.
So I created this new class called Less Demo and it is added in this new package called Semantics where
collections.
And later on we will create you will be creating this less demo.
So I will be removing this package once I'm done with this lecture.
So let's get more has some of these import statements.
So let me reorganize them.
Reshuffle them.
And this one is the basics demo class from the basics package.
So our.
Very own basics class.
So they are all reorganized and they are not properly formatted.
So once again, if you say control shift or so, they are all in their original positions.
So you can see that they're all ordered nicely.
And these Java API import statements come before our own import statement.
So that's what Control Shift is doing.
So it is reorganizing our organizing our import statements so it will help us add import statements,
remove unused import statements and also organize them if they are not sorted in proper order.
So that's what the import statements.
Now.
The next one is really cool.
I just love this.
So back in the Basics demo class and let's scroll here.
So we have this labeled continue.
Let's say I'm drunk and I once I'm drunk, maybe.
I'm not quoting in the right with the right frame of mind.
And this is what we have.
So you should never code when you are drunk.
So here, what we can do is to format it nicely.
All you will say is control shift f where F stands for formatting and it will nicely format our code
no matter how you write this particular class.
If you hit control shift f it will nicely format your code.
So it's a beautiful shortcut.
Next as let's say we want to move all of this block of code by one tap to words, right?
So you all you will do is just select this and hit tab here.
So you might have seen this in other editors also, if you want one more tab, one more.
Now, if you want to move it back in the left side, if you want to shift it left side, you will say
shift tab.
For the right side, it's tab for the left side.
Shift tab it is.
So that's good.
Now next is if you want to comment this code, comment this entire block of code, and if you want each
line to have that single line command, so you will select all of this and just say control forward
slash.
So it's all for it's all commented out now and if you want to uncomment it, you will use the same shortcut
once again, which is control for word slash.
Now if you want to add block code so you'll select this and you will say control, shift forward slash
instead of control forward slash, it's control shift forward slash.
Now if you want to uncomment it, instead of using the exact same thing, we will say control, shift
backslash.
So now let us uncomment it out.
So for single line comments it is control slash forward slash for both commenting as well as on commenting
for block it is control shift forward slash for commenting for on commenting it is control shift backward
slash.
But this thing is messed up for some reason.
But we have our friend control shift f and it will format it in the right way.
So this is like professional looking code now.
Now if you want to increase the font size, I have shown it in one of the earlier lectures that you
can go into windows and window and preferences and appearance and so on.
But a short way in which you can increase the font as just hit control a control equal to so it increases
the font.
So that's like zooming in.
One more zoom in.
So it increases the font.
Now, if you want to zoom out, just say control hyphen.
If we want to adjust the font.
Furthermore, control hyphen.
So that's zoom in and zoom out control equal to four, zoom in, control hyphen for zoom out.
So we are done with that formatting and organizing.
Now let's automatically generate some statements for this.
Let's open our student test class so we'll set control of the student test, which is here.
So we are creating a bunch of student statements here.
Students one to student three.
Now let's say we want to create a new student object.
You will just say new and say control space.
And we will be using this control space for a few more for creating some more statements.
So it has created the statement.
It's a template statement.
And you will just you will replace this type with student.
And as you are typing, it has got changed on this side also, which is really cool.
And name here is just let's say student four So that's how you can generate the statement.
Now let's say we want to print the names of the first three students.
So obviously we need for each statement for that.
So but let's first add those three students into an array called List.
So those are three student objects and you will just save for each and simply control space and click
on that.
And it has even inferred the name of this particular list.
So it assumed that we want to iterate through this list.
So which is really cool.
Now in order to print, you'll just assess out control space.
I think we use this earlier.
Now let's go ahead and print the name so it will be Student Dot.
But once you press dot, it also shows us all the members and the student class.
How cool is that?
So these are all the variables, but they have to be non private because private variables will not
be seen outside of the class.
And there is also the object profile method and you can ignore the rest of the methods because they
are related to superclass concept, which we haven't yet discussed.
So just let's click on this name here.
So that's it.
So controlled space is what we are using.
Now, let's say we want to add a method in the student class from here itself.
Let me just show you how that can be done.
So you will go here.
Student Let's say the new method is called get say gender, which is not yet there, and it should return
the gender of the student object.
So it's not there.
But if you hover over this because we have the compilation error.
So as a quick fix, Eclipse is saying that you can create this method, get gender in type.
Student type is nothing but a class here.
So when we click in the student class, it opens the student class and it created this method called
get gender.
So it just returns a string because gender is string.
So if we scroll up, we can see that gender is here.
So that's how a method can be automatically created.
Now, let me just run this.
So you can see that it is printing both the name as well as the gender of each student.
So similarly, you can also add such template codes for switch for and main method also.
And you will just say control space.
So you can just explore them.
Maybe you can also Google and find out four.
Find out what other constructs that you can automatically generate.
Now, if you want to automatically create a method here, also, there is also a shortcut for that.
Let's say we call it let's just we want a public method.
Just say public underscore method and say control space and that's it.
It will create a template and you can change the return type on the name.
Let's say get name here so you can change it that way.
So that's that you can also create methods in this way.
So let me just remove all of this.
To get back to the original state.
Now, I just want to share one last thing.
So within this basics class, let me just add this new class called course.
And let's add to private methods.
So if you create an object, of course we cannot set the ID and name right because they are private
to the class so we can add setter methods and a setter method will generally also have an accompanying
getter method.
So using a set method we can initialize the state.
So if you hover over here, it gives us a suggestion.
So it says create getter and setter for ID.
You can just hit okay.
And it has created the get I.D. and set ID.
Same goes for name also.
We are getting a warning because it is not being used.
So just say create getter and setter and it says where do you want to insert it?
Insert it after set ID.
So if you do that after set ID, we have a get name, method get name which just returns the name and
set name using which we can set the name of this variable.
Now, another way to create them, as in one shot is going to source here and say generate getters and
setters and the two fields are shown just say select all and hit generate and the four methods are created
automatically and that's really cool.
So getters and setters are very common.
It's a common concept, but let's see how.
Let me also show you how we can create a constructor automatically, which takes two parameters ID and
name and initializes them.
So just go into source and here you will see this thing called generate constructor using fields.
So just click on that and just select both of these fields, make sure that they are selected insertion
point let's say after ID field.
Or let's say after name field and say generate.
So after name field, the course has been automatically created with the two parameters and the ID and
name are being initialized here.
So you can ignore this particular statement for now.
So that's how you can automatically create constructors.
We don't have to type in.
That's really cool.
So I hope you like that.
And I really like the control shift f for for formatting.
So I hope you also liked what you have seen here.
So that's about it.
Thank you.
And I will see you in the next lecture.